add v1.1.0 release notes (#2569)
pingcap/tidb-operator: CHANGELOG-1.1.md

# TiDB Operator v1.1.0 Release Notes

This is the GA release of TiDB Operator 1.1, which focuses on the usability, extensibility and security.

See our official [documentation site](https://pingcap.com/docs/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable/) for new features, guides, and instructions in production, etc.

> 

Reviewer: Add a step to guide user to upgrade from 1.0 to 1.1?

Author: do we have a doc about this in docs-tidb-operator? we can add a link here.

Author: add a section "Upgrade from v1.0.x"

## Break changes since v1.0.0

- Change TiDB pod `readiness` probe from `HTTPGet` to `TCPSocket` 4000 port. This will trigger rolling-upgrade for the `tidb-server` component. You can set `spec.paused` to `true` before upgrading tidb-operator to avoid the rolling upgrade, and set it back to `false` when you are ready to upgrade your tidb server ([#2139](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2139), [@weekface](https://github.com/weekface))
- `--advertise-address` will be configured for `tidb-server`, which would trigger rolling-upgrade for the `tidb-server` component. You can set `spec.paused` to `true` before upgrading tidb-operator to avoid the rolling upgrade, and set it back to `false` when you are ready to upgrade your tidb server ([#2076](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2076), [@cofyc](https://github.com/cofyc))

> - Add the `tlsClient.tlsSecret` field in the backup and restore spec, which supports specifying a secret name that includes the cert ([#2003](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2003), [@shuijing198799](https://github.com/shuijing198799))

Author: removed

- `--advertise-address` is configured for `tidb-server`, which would trigger rolling-upgrade for the TiDB server. You can set `spec.paused` to `true` before upgrading TiDB Operator to avoid the rolling upgrade, and set it back to `false` when you are ready to upgrade your TiDB server ([#2076](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2076), [@cofyc](https://github.com/cofyc))
- `--default-storage-class-name` and `--default-backup-storage-class-name` flags are abandoned, and the storage class defaults to Kubernetes default storage class right now. If you have set default storage class different than Kubernetes default storage class, set them explicitly in your TiDB cluster Helm or YAML files. ([#1581](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/1581), [@cofyc](https://github.com/cofyc))
- Add the `timezone` support for [all charts](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/tree/master/charts) ([#1122](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/1122), [@weekface](https://github.com/weekface)).

>   For the `tidb-cluster` chart, we already have the `timezone` option (`UTC` by default). If the user does not change it to a different value (for example, `Aisa/Shanghai`), all Pods will not be recreated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  For the `tidb-cluster` chart, we already have the `timezone` option (`UTC` by default). If the user does not change it to a different value (for example, `Aisa/Shanghai`), none of the Pods will be recreated.
```

# TiDB Operator v1.1.0 Release Notes

This is the GA release of TiDB Operator 1.1, which focuses on the usability, extensibility and security.

See our official [documentation site](https://pingcap.com/docs/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable/) for new features, guides, and instructions in production, etc.

## Upgrade from v1.0.x

> For v1.0.x users, refer to [Upgrade TiDB Operator](https://pingcap.com/docs/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable/upgrade-tidb-operator/) to upgrade TiDB Operator in your cluster. Note that you should read the release notes (especially breaking changes and action required items) before the upgrade.

Reviewer 2: There's no `action required` section in this release.
```suggestion
For v1.0.x users, refer to [Upgrade TiDB Operator](https://pingcap.com/docs/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable/upgrade-tidb-operator/) to upgrade TiDB Operator in your cluster. Note that you should read the release notes (especially the breaking changes section) before the upgrade.
```

## Break changes since v1.0.0

- Change TiDB pod `readiness` probe from `HTTPGet` to `TCPSocket` 4000 port. This will trigger rolling-upgrade for the `tidb-server` component. You can set `spec.paused` to `true` before upgrading tidb-operator to avoid the rolling upgrade, and set it back to `false` when you are ready to upgrade your tidb server ([#2139](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2139), [@weekface](https://github.com/weekface))

> - `--advertise-address` will be configured for `tidb-server`, which would trigger rolling-upgrade for the `tidb-server` component. You can set `spec.paused` to `true` before upgrading tidb-operator to avoid the rolling upgrade, and set it back to `false` when you are ready to upgrade your tidb server ([#2076](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2076), [@cofyc](https://github.com/cofyc))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `--advertise-address` is configured for `tidb-server`, which would trigger rolling-upgrade for the TiDB server. You can set `spec.paused` to `true` before upgrading TiDB Operator to avoid the rolling upgrade, and set it back to `false` when you are ready to upgrade your TiDB server ([#2076](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2076), [@cofyc](https://github.com/cofyc))
```

> - Add the `tlsClient.tlsSecret` field in the backup and restore spec, which supports specifying a secret name that includes the cert ([#2003](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2003), [@shuijing198799](https://github.com/shuijing198799))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add the `tlsClient.tlsSecret` field in the backup and restore spec, which supports specifying a secret name that includes the certificate ([#2003](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2003), [@shuijing198799](https://github.com/shuijing198799))
```

> - `--default-storage-class-name` and `--default-backup-storage-class-name` flags are abandoned, and the storage class defaults to Kubernetes default storage class right now. If you have set default storage class different than Kubernetes default storage class, please set them explicitly in your TiDB cluster helm or YAML files. ([#1581](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/1581), [@cofyc](https://github.com/cofyc))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `--default-storage-class-name` and `--default-backup-storage-class-name` flags are abandoned, and the storage class defaults to Kubernetes default storage class right now. If you have set default storage class different than Kubernetes default storage class, set them explicitly in your TiDB cluster Helm or YAML files. ([#1581](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/1581), [@cofyc](https://github.com/cofyc))
```

>   For the `tidb-cluster` chart, we already have the `timezone` option (`UTC` by default). If the user does not change it to a different value (for example, `Aisa/Shanghai`), all Pods will not be recreated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  For the `tidb-cluster` chart, we already have the `timezone` option (`UTC` by default). If the user does not change it to a different value (for example, `Asia/Shanghai`), all Pods will not be recreated.
```

>   For the `tidb-cluster` chart, we already have the `timezone` option (`UTC` by default). If the user does not change it to a different value (for example, `Aisa/Shanghai`), all Pods will not be recreated.

Reviewer 2: @weekface Just to make sure, do you mean `none of the Pods will be recreated`, or `only some of the Pods will not be recreated`? 
`all Pods will not be recreated` is a partial negation, and it means the latter.

Reviewer: It means `none of the Pods will be recreated`

>   If the user changes it to another value (for example, `Aisa/Shanghai`), all the related Pods (add a `TZ` env) will be recreated, namely rolling updated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If the user changes it to another value (for example, `Asia/Shanghai`), all the related Pods (add a `TZ` env) will be recreated, namely rolling updated.
```

>   For the `tidb-cluster` chart, we already have the `timezone` option (`UTC` by default). If the user does not change it to a different value (for example: `Aisa/Shanghai`), all Pods will not be recreated.
>   If the user changes it to another value (for example: `Aisa/Shanghai`), all the related Pods (add a `TZ` env) will be recreated (rolling update).

Reviewer 2: ``(add a `TZ` env)`` is not grammatically correct in this sentence. 
```suggestion
  For the `tidb-cluster` chart, we already have the `timezone` option (`UTC` by default). If the user does not change it to a different value (for example, `Aisa/Shanghai`), all Pods will not be recreated.
  If the user changes it to another value (for example, `Aisa/Shanghai`), all the related Pods (add a `TZ` env) will be recreated, namely rolling updated.
```

>   Other charts do not have a `timezone` option in their `values.yaml`. The `timezone` option is added in this PR. Whether the user uses the old `values.yaml` or the new `values.yaml`, all the related Pods (add a `TZ` env) will not be recreated, namely rolling updated.

Reviewer 2: Ditto. What do you really mean by `all the related Pods (add a `TZ` env) will not be recreated`?

Author: cc @weekface

Reviewer: It means none of related Pods will be recreated.

I suggest delete this sentence because this is not a break change.

Author: removed, please check again

>   Regarding other charts, we don't have a `timezone` option in their `values.yaml`. We add the `timezone` option in this PR. No matter whether the user uses the old `values.yaml` or the new `values.yaml`, all the related Pods (add a `TZ` env) will not be recreated (rolling update).

Reviewer 2: Avoid using `we`/`us`.
```suggestion
  Other charts do not have a `timezone` option in their `values.yaml`. The `timezone` option is added in this PR. Whether the user uses the old `values.yaml` or the new `values.yaml`, all the related Pods (add a `TZ` env) will not be recreated, namely rolling updated.
```

  
  The related Pods include `pump`, `drainer`, `dicovery`, `monitor`, `scheduled backup`, `tidb-initializer`, and `tikv-importer`.
  

>   All images' time zone maintained by `tidb-operator` is `UTC`. If you use your own images, you need to make sure that the time zone inside your images is `UTC`. 

Reviewer 2: `TiDB Operator` or `tidb-operator`?

Author: `TiDB Operator` is better IMO, I'll update it.

Author: updated

## Other Notable changes

- Fix `TidbCluster` upgrade bug when `PodWebhook` and `Advancend StatefulSet` are both enabled ([#2507](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2507), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))
- Support preemption in `tidb-scheduler` ([#2510](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2510), [@cofyc](https://github.com/cofyc))
- Update BR to v4.0.0-rc.2 to include the `auto_random` fix ([#2508](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2508), [@DanielZhangQD](https://github.com/DanielZhangQD))

> - TiFlash supports advanced statefulset ([#2469](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2469), [@DanielZhangQD](https://github.com/DanielZhangQD))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Supports advanced statefulset for TiFlash ([#2469](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2469), [@DanielZhangQD](https://github.com/DanielZhangQD))
```

- Improve performance by removing `TidbControl` lock ([#2489](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2489), [@weekface](https://github.com/weekface))

> - Add TiCDC controller ([#2362](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2362), [@weekface](https://github.com/weekface))

Reviewer 3: What about `Support TiCDC in TidbCluster` ?

Author: cc @weekface what do you think?

btw, as @ran-huang suggested, we should always use the full name `TiCDC` in docs

Reviewer: agree

Author: updated

> - Add CDC controller ([#2362](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2362), [@weekface](https://github.com/weekface))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add TiCDC controller ([#2362](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2362), [@weekface](https://github.com/weekface))
```

> - TiDB Operator will not do failover for PD pods which are not desired ([#2570](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2570), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- TiDB Operator does not perform failover for PD pods which are not desired ([#2570](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2570), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))
```

> - Support TiDB and TiKV Configuration to v4.0.0-rc.2 ([#2488](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2488), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))

Reviewer 2: Not v4.0.0 GA?

Author: GA config is added in another PR, I'll include the release note from https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2571.

Author: done
